feat(database): doc about database maintenance windows (#2216)
Scalingo/documentation: src/_posts/platform/databases/2000-01-01-maintenance-windows.md

---
title: Database Maintenance Windows
nav: Maintenance Windows
modified_at: 2023-08-31 00:00:00
tags: databases maintenance
index: 0
---

> Database Maintenance Windows is our system tailored to schedule the maintenances needed on your databases. It allows you to keep them secure and up-to-date, while being aware of the time period where your database could be temporarily unavailable.

Reviewer: I'd simplify this sentence, the more is simple the more it is understandable.
In addition, "It allows you to keep them secure..", wouldn't be "It allows us to keep them.." instead as we are the ones executing the update/operation/... during maintenance.

Author: You are right! Fixing

Each database has a default maintenance window set by Scalingo. But you can now provide a eight hours time window where Scalingo can proceed to the maintenance of your database.

> Moreover, it's also possible to schedule the maintenance when your app is less prone to high traffic (i.e : the night between Sunday and Monday). With those features, we have in mind the prevention of any undesired downtime of your app.

Reviewer: It is not the case for everyone, I'd provide an example instead
```suggestion
Moreover, it's also possible to schedule the maintenance when your app is less prone to high traffic (e.g : the night between Sunday and Monday). With those features, we have in mind the prevention of any undesired downtime of your app.
```

Author: Nice catch! Fixing

Planned Maintenance Windows are excluded from the SLA calculation.

### Configure your desired Database Maintenance Window

> With the Scalingo CLI, the desired beginning period of your eight hours time window can be configured with the `addons-config` command:

Author: For now, we take the timezone of the host who is specifying his maintenance window! the user does not have to specify anything

```bash
# You are setting the window day to "monday", starting at 1AM

> scalingo --app my-app addons-config --maintenance-window-day monday --maintenance-window-hour 1 ADDON_ID

Author: fixed

```

> Setting this up allows Scalingo to proceed to their maintenance between 1AM and 9AM on your timezone. You can check the time window you configured with the command `addons-info`:

Author: It actually does not displays timezones, but adapts to the user's timezone. Expliciting this a bit

> Setting this up will allow Scalingo to proceed to their maintenance between 1AM and 9AM on your timezone. You can check the time window you configured with the command `addons-info`:

Reviewer: I don't think the usage of future tense is needed here
```suggestion
Setting this up allows Scalingo to proceed to their maintenance between 1AM and 9AM on your timezone. You can check the time window you configured with the command `addons-info`:
```

Author: You're right as well, fixing

```bash

> scalingo --app my-app addons-info ADDON_ID

Reviewer 2: For consistency purpose

```suggestion
scalingo --app my-app addons-info addon-uuid
```

```

> ### Check past and future maintenances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check past and future maintenance
```

> To use the following commands in order to list planned and past maintenances on your database, specify the related application, and your database addon UUID:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the following commands in order to list planned and past maintenance on your database, specify the related application, and your database addon UUID:
```

```bash

> scalingo --app my-app --addon addon_uuid database_maintenance_list

Reviewer 2: For consistency purpose

```suggestion
scalingo --app my-app --addon addon-uuid database_maintenance_list
```

```

> This will give you the list of the planned maintenance windows for your databases.

Reviewer 2: no future tense in documentation
```suggestion
This command displays the list of the planned maintenance windows for your database.
```

You can, as well, get more details about a specific maintenance :

```bash

> scalingo --app my-app --addon addon_uuid database_maintenance_info maintenance_uuid

Reviewer 2: For consistency purpose

```suggestion
scalingo --app my-app --addon addon-uuid database_maintenance_info maintenance_uuid
```
